---
layout: post
title:  "AJ Arabic Design Language"
date:   2016-09-14 00:58:19 -0700
img-src: "http://placehold.it/350x150"
categories: blog post notes
---

#Creative Brief  -  v1.0-beta
 
Trello Board for all task and resource links : https://trello.com/b/9BXYKNIK/aja-dls

##Overview
- Build AJ Arabic design language system as a centralized, living online resource. The system will consolidate design/brand guidelines and assets into an easily accessible location. It should define a clear lane for the AJ Arabic brand today and demonstrate a level of flexibility for the brand to evolve in the future. 

##Goal
- The design language system will be a tool to drive design consistency for a cohesive brand experience in all channels. In turn, streamlining creative development and asset approval processes. 

##Creative Considerations
- Who are the stakeholders?
- Are the brand guidelines finalized?
- Who is writing / providing the extra copy? 
- Are we leveraging the copy in the current brand guidelines?
- There will be a content cutoff date at least a week before launch. (Stop all moving parts)
- Is the new AJ Arabic brand leveraging any parts of the overall AJ global brand? 

##Challenges
- Time limitations
- Are all guidelines written?
- Are all technical design specs defined?
- Are all design demonstrations/examples created? (Digital, Print and On-Air)?

##Final Deliverables / Expectations
- Install and configure CMS
- Custom Genesis theme for WordPress
- Custom post types
- Functionality to download assets

##Timing
- We need to break the work into groups of sprints leading up to launch.
- Start date: Sep 14
- Delivery date: Oct 31- 6.5 wks
- 1 week identify limitations, roles, responsibilities, plan content
- 1 week to design wireframes, mockups, and approved designs
- 2 weeks to build
- 1 week revision
- 1 week test and launch
- Launch date: AJA redesign. Nov 1 - 9 wks
- What can we do in parallel?

##Requirements & Dependencies
- The staging and production environments must support WordPress with Genesis framework and will not require special modifications to properly operate on the provided hosting platform.
- Acquire credentials for staging and production environments for testing asap
- VPN access?
- PHP supported environment
- Support for only modern browsers. IE 10 and higher

##Assets provided
- Working files of AJ Arabic redesign (Sketch)
- Rebrand - Editorial Style Guide
- On-Air Style Guide
- Promo videos
- Animation examples
- Animation guidelines
- Header animation file (After Effects)

##Design / Dev Questions:
- Will the site be public or private?
- Wireframes
- Navigation levels
- Identify major page components
- Columns in the custom posts
- As a result of the theme not being built with bootstrap we wont have a column / row framework out of the box.
- Which pages designs / content are closest to being completed?
- Sidebar functionality
- Hard code the sidebar (JavaScript) for v.1 implement WP UI for v.2
- Videos
- How are we going to present the videos and animations?
- Do we need to build custom video players?
- What file types are we supporting?
- WordPress plugin?
- Footer Menu
- Hard coded for v.1 and WP UI next version
- How are we going to handle the downloading of assets?
- Will the file be served through WordPress or through gated urls?


