# SSH Access

SSH allows secure file transfer and remote logins over the internet. Your connection via SSH is encrypted allowing the secure connection. In this section you can manage your SSH keys to allow automation when logging in via SSH. Using public key authentication is an alternative to password authentication. Since the private key must be held to authenticate, it is virtually impossible to brute force. You can import existing keys, generate new keys, as well as manage/delete keys.

SSH (Secure Shell) is a program to log into another computer/server over a network securely. It provides strong authentication and secure communications over insecure channels. Your login, commands, text are all encrypted when using ssh.
Manage SSH Keys

The public and private key are similar to a puzzle. They are created together to use during the login/authentication process. The public key resides on the server (the remote location). The private key resides locally on your computer/server. When you attempt to login to a server, the public and private key are compared. If they “match”, then you will be allowed to login to the server location. 


--- 

## Manage SSH Keys

Key Descriptions

The public and private key are similar to a puzzle. They are created together to use during the login/authentication process. The public key resides on the server (the remote location). The private key resides locally on your computer/server. When you attempt to login to a server, the public and private key are compared. If they match, then you will be allowed to login to the server location.

** You can download the private/public keys here and import into PuTTy (or other SSH clients) if you prefer using something else for SSH connections. Or, if you have been using PuTTY, you can import the public/private keys by clicking on Import Key. You can also download your key in PuTTY’s ppk format under View/Download.

--- 

Home Directory  
/home/jabaltorres  

Website(s) IP Address  
107.180.40.120 

---

Key name: id_jt_rsa  
Key password: `1]&GXbqrnBo_`  

---

### RSA Details
Generating public/private rsa key pair.
Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase): 
Enter same passphrase again: 
Your identification has been saved in /home/jabaltorres/.ssh/id_jt_rsa.
Your public key has been saved in /home/jabaltorres/.ssh/id_jt_rsa.pub.
The key fingerprint is:
48:c5:e2:59:ae:8c:0b:41:89:6c:e4:04:3e:0c:55:a2 
The key's randomart image is:
+--[ RSA 2048]----+
|*=oo.  ..        |
|B+o.  ..o        |
|E*   ..=         |
|  o  .o..        |
|   . o..S        |
|  . . o          |
|   . .           |
|    .            |
|                 |
+-----------------+



--- 

### Bash commands
These were used for Digital Meaning  

`rsync -avz -e "ssh -p 2222" --delete --exclude=".*" --exclude=".*/" --exclude="*.codekit" Corostuff/ btdenyer@192.254.235.142:~/public_html/corostuff/`  

password: `PV!*0897*`  

Connecting to server through SSH  
`ssh -p 2222 btdenyer@192.254.235.142`  
password: `PV!*0897*`  


Connecting to my server through SSH  
`ssh -p 22 jabaltorres@107.180.40.120`  
password: wutangcd  

Test to SCP - haven’t tried yet  
`scp -P2222 uploads.zip btdenyer@192.254.235.142:~/public_html/wordpress/wp-content`

----

### Sync Web Fun
`rsync -avz --delete --exclude=".*" --exclude=".*/" --exclude="*.codekit" web-fun/ jabaltorres@23.229.174.73:~/public_html/playground/web-fun/`

### Sync WP Theme
`rsync -avz --delete --exclude=".*" --exclude=".*/" --exclude="*.codekit" wptheme/ jabaltorres@23.229.174.73:~/public_html/wp-content/themes/Twentythirteen-Child-Theme/`

### Sync Baby  
`rsync -avz --delete --exclude=".*" --exclude=".*/" --exclude="*.codekit" Baby.com-Prototype/ jabaltorres@23.229.174.73:~/public_html/staging/babydotcom`

### Sync test
Just a quick path: `/home/jabaltorres/www/oktodelete`  

`rsync -avz --delete --exclude=".*" --exclude=".*/" --exclude="*.codekit" My-EverNotes.git/ jabaltorres@107.180.40.120:~/public_html/staging/oktodelete`
